Port Scanning Report 

📝 Introduction 

This report outlines the methodology and findings from a port scanning activity conducted as part of a cybersecurity internship project. The primary objective was to identify open ports on a target system, understand the services running on these ports, assess potential security risks, and recommend mitigation strategies. 

🛠️ Tools Utilized 

Port Scanning Tool: Nmap 

Operating System: Windows 10 

🔧 Methodology 

1. Scanning All TCP Ports 

To perform a comprehensive scan of all 65,535 TCP ports on the target system, the following Nmap command was executed: 

nmap -p- 192.168.xxx.x 
 

Explanation of the command: 

nmap: Invokes the Nmap tool. 

-p-: Instructs Nmap to scan all 65,535 TCP ports. 

192.168.135.1: Specifies the target IP address. 

This command provides a complete overview of all open TCP ports on the target system. 

2. Service and Version Detection 

After identifying open ports, a more detailed scan was conducted to determine the services running on these ports and their versions: 

nmap -sV -p 135,902,912 192.168.135.1 
 

Explanation of the command: 

-sV: Enables service and version detection. 

-p 135,902,912: Specifies the ports to scan. 

192.168.135.1: Specifies the target IP address. 

This scan provides detailed information about the services running on the specified ports. 

📄 Scan Results 

The scans revealed the following open ports and associated services: 

Port: 1.135 
      2.902 
      3.912

Protocol: 1. TCP
          2. TCP
          3. TCP

Service: 1. MSRPC
        2. ISS RealSecure / VMware 
        3. APEX Mesh / VMware Authentication Daemon 



Description: 1. Microsoft Remote Procedure Call Endpoint Mapper.
             2. Used by VMware vSphere for ESXi host management and ISS RealSecure Sensor.
             3. APEX relay-relay service; also associated with VMware Authentication Daemon. 


🔍 Analysis & Security Implications 

Port 135 – MSRPC 

Purpose: Facilitates communication between applications across a network using Microsoft's Remote Procedure Call (RPC) protocol. 

Security Considerations: 

Vulnerabilities: Known to be exploited in attacks like Blaster Worm and WannaCry. 

Exposure Risks: Can be used by attackers to execute remote commands or escalate privileges. 

Recommendations: 

Restrict access to port 135 using firewalls. 

Disable RPC services if not required. 

Regularly update Windows systems to patch known vulnerabilities. 

Port 902 – ISS RealSecure / VMware 

Purpose: Used by VMware vSphere for ESXi host management and by ISS RealSecure Sensor. 

Security Considerations: 

Unauthorized Access: Open port can allow unauthorized access to VMware services. 

Brute-force Attacks: Potential for attackers to attempt credential guessing. 

Recommendations: 

Restrict access to trusted IP addresses. 

Implement strong authentication mechanisms. 

Regularly update VMware products to patch known vulnerabilities.Wikipedia 

Port 912 – APEX Mesh / VMware Authentication Daemon 

Purpose: APEX relay-relay service; also associated with VMware Authentication Daemon. 

Security Considerations: 

Denial of Service (DoS): Vulnerabilities can be exploited to crash services. 

Unauthorized Access: Potential for attackers to gain unauthorized access or execute commands. 

Recommendations: 

Restrict access to port 912 using firewalls. 

Disable the service if not required. 

Regularly update associated software to patch known vulnerabilities. 

✅ Recommendations Summary 

MSRPC (Port 135): 

Restrict access using firewalls. 

Disable RPC services if not needed. 

Keep Windows systems updated. 

ISS RealSecure / VMware (Port 902): 

Limit access to trusted IPs. 

Use strong authentication. 

Update VMware products regularly. 

APEX Mesh / VMware Authentication Daemon (Port 912): 

Restrict access using firewalls. 

Disable service if unnecessary. 

Keep associated software updated. 

 
